The world consists of all types of people. Some are fortunate enough to have amenities while some aren’t. Especially in a country like India, where the majority of the population lives below the poverty line. To own a house here is no less than a luxury, one which I thankfully have. I am blessed to be protected by four walls and a roof.

It is my parent’s hard work that has given us this blessing. Many people in today’s world are always complaining about the things they don’t have. The person who has a house wants a bungalow. The one who owns a bungalow wants a palace. The one living in a palace wants an island. This never-ending cycle goes on. However, if we look at the people below us rather than those who are above us, we will be happier.

An Underrated Blessing
Having a house is an underrated blessing. If you have not realized it yet, you can go and ask any person who doesn’t have a house. Only then will you realize what a great blessing it is to have a house. Houses do not necessarily have to be luxuriously filled with the latest amenities. A house is complete if you have a roof over your head.

Moreover, if you have your loved ones around, then there can be no greater blessing. You must realize the importance of your house before it gets too late. Even I never knew how precious my house was up until one incident that changed my outlook.

We had house help growing up. The maid who used to work for us always came early in the morning and would leave in the evening. Even when my mother asked her to leave early as she completed the work on time, she never did that. On the other hand, she used to do extra work. Later we found out that she never really had a house. It was just a hut which had one chair and one folding. And that she liked spending time most of the time at our house because she had access to all basic facilities like electricity and clean water.

This incident made me realize how I took my house for granted. It is truly an underrated blessing which is overlooked by others. We must value our homes before it gets too late.