When the prices of goods and commodities increase over a period of time in a sustained manner, the phenomenon is called inflation. It is measured in terms of an annual percentage change in a price index, which is normally the consumer price index. In simple terms, inflation means that your purchasing power is reduced and a rupee doesn’t go as far as it used to. Therefore, when the value of money goes down and prices rise, you have inflation.

Causes of Rising Prices Inflation

While academics and economists haven’t agreed on one particular theory about the cause of inflation, they generally agree that certain factors are responsible for it.

Demand Pull Inflation – As the name suggests, this happens when demand exceeds supply. There is an increase in demand for products and services and due to this increased demand, prices go up. The phenomenon is usually observed in economies that are experiencing rapid growth
Cost Push Inflation – This comes from the supply side. When a company’s cost of production increases, it compensates by increasing the prices of its goods and services, so that it can maintain its profit margin. Production costs can go up because the cost of the raw materials goes up or because of taxation or because of increased wages to its workers.
Monetary Inflation – As per this theory, when money is oversupplied in an economy, inflation occurs. Since money is also ruled by supply and demand, too much money circulating makes its value go down and therefore, prices go up.
Conclusion

People are directly impacted by inflation. What they fail to see, however, is that inflation is necessary to and sometimes beneficial for the economy. They should focus on demanding that wages rise as inflation does, so that their purchasing power isn’t affected negatively. Inflation by itself isn’t simply bad or good; the type of economy and people’s own circumstances determine whether it is one or the other.

Essay on Problems of Rising Prices – Essay 3 (300 words)
Introduction

As a developing country with the second largest population in the world, India faces quite a few challenges. One of these is rising prices and it is by far the most immediate problem. Because a large part of the Indian population lives on or below the poverty line, this issue impacts them severely. In addition, the middle class is also facing greater problems because of prices rising.

What Rising Prices Do

It has commonly been held that price rises are a normal part of a growing economy. This is true to some extent. However, recent years have seen exponential hikes in prices – hikes that are affecting those Indians who were already at subsistence level. The number of people living below the poverty line is actually increasing instead of decreasing.

Another segment of society that is affected by rising prices is the middle class. A robust part of society, the middle class, now finds itself struggling to make ends meet. These are people who earn a fixed income; they are the salaried class. Unfortunately, their salaries are unable to keep up with the constant increases in prices of necessary goods and commodities. As a result, the gap between the haves and the have-nots increases day by day.

Whenever such a situation continues for some time, unrest is inevitable. As wage earners find themselves facing the problems price hikes bring, they start agitating against their employers. This, in turn, brings a halt to productivity, causing shortage of goods and commensurate rise in prices. The whole thing becomes a vicious circle.

Conclusion

While price hikes are inevitable in any economy, uncontrolled or badly controlled increases hit the population of a country hard and amplify the gap between the rich and the poor. They lower the general standard of living and cause mass unrest. In order to have a stable and prosperous society it is necessary for the powers that be to exercise some measure of control over price hikes.Rar! ϐs         