Cheating on exams can result in serious consequences for the student who cheats. If you are caught cheating, you may be banned from the university for a year, you may be denied the right to take the exam at other universities and university colleges, and your exam from the course in which you cheated will be annulled. Norsk versjon - Fusk på eksamen

Looking for something else? Topic page about exams | Pages labelled with exam

Table of Contents [-]
Examples of cheating
Cheating on other assignments
Your responsiblity
Checks for plagiarism
Guidelines
Examples of cheating #
The list below is not exhaustive.

Presenting someone else’s work entirely or partially as the student’s own, i.e. plagiarism, including lack of reference to sources and/or clear marking of quotations from sources on the web, other people’s theses or assignments, textbooks, articles, etc.
Taking an answer paper from the Internet, etc. and submitting all or part of it as one’s own work 
Presenting one’s own previous work without reference (self-plagiarism)
Submitting work of a practical or artistic nature created by someone other than the student 
Unauthorized cooperation or communication between candidates or groups
Changing an answer paper after submitting it
Using or having access to illegal aids during the relevant examination, for example:
a calculator or PC with content/programmability beyond the limits of what is allowed
software installed in connection with an examination that makes it possible to access illegal exam support material
a mobile phone or other digital aid (this must be kept in the designated place during the exam) 
loose sheets, notes, a memory stick with curriculum-relevant content 
text relevant to the subject that is written or pasted into permitted exam support material such as dictionaries or collections of formulae
students’ own sheets of rough paper with a “draft text” that has been written beforehand, textbooks from the curriculum or other relevant academic books
illegal exam support material available in areas outside the examination room, for example, in toilets 
illegal exam support material discovered in checks before the exam 
Unauthorized use of permissible aids
Improperly got acess to the exam
The student gets someone else to attend the exam in their place or gets another person to write their answer paper 
The student gets someone else to sign for them in connection with compulsory attendance 
Through dishonest behaviour before the examination, the student obtains access to the exam question paper 
The student aids or abets another student to cheat
Otherwise acting in a way that could provide wrongful advantages in connection with assessment or compulsory activities
Cheating on other assignments #
Obligatory assignments or reports that must be approved in order for the student to take the exam also fall under the same rules as for cheating on exams.

Your responsiblity #
It is your responsibility to become familiar with the rules that apply to your work in terms of use of sources and references, as well as what kinds of aids are allowed in examinations or in the production of written or technical work. Reed more about how to use and cite sources, use of reference management tools and current courses:

https://innsida.ntnu.no/wiki/-/wiki/English/Using+and+citing+sources

If you are uncertain about which rules apply, you should contact the responsible individuals in your academic discipline.

Checks for plagiarism #
NTNU has a system that enables documents and exams to be checked for plagiarism.  All assignments, exams, theses and reports that are submitted can be checked for plagiarism.

NTNU's Central Appeals Board decides what kinds of sanctions will be levied in the case of plagiarism or cheating.