Despite some advances, women still suffer gender discrimination in the workplace, especially when it comes to pay. The latest research has found that in 2017, women in the U.S. earned 82 percent of what men earned. Gender discrimination is a persistent problem in the U.S., but it is especially pernicious in the developing world, where women’s rights have not advanced as rapidly as many people had hoped. Gender discrimination in the work place is defined as the unfavorable treatment of someone (an employee or a job applicant) because of gender.


As a business owner, it’s important for you to understand the causes, effects and solutions for gender discrimination, so that you can run a company that maximizes the full skills and talents of your workforce.

Causes of Gender Discrimination in the Workplace
A primary causes of gender discrimination in the workplace is that women are under-represented in many different industries, especially in male-dominated industries such as the auto industry. As a result, men in authority in these industries don’t always have an open, progressive view about welcoming women, and that can create conflict, tension, and a negative work environment. Discrimination, however, doesn’t exist solely in male-dominated industries; it also crops up in diverse industries in which male executives and male staff employees view women as less capable or less able to perform work tasks at an acceptable level.


Effects of Gender Discrimination
Gender discrimination may seem like a minor problem in the workplace, but the truth is that it increases conflict and tension among your team members. When it’s clear that your work culture devalues the contribution of female employees, the focus shifts from performing daily tasks to the conflicts created by women that decide to take action against discriminatory practices. Another effect of gender discrimination is that your female employees will feel less motivated to do their job, because they don’t feel valued by their supervisors.

This can hinder productivity, which means you’re losing money because you haven’t resolved the issues that are affecting your female staff members. Finally, gender discrimination is illegal under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, so you may end up facing legal repercussions, if a female employee files a claim with the U.S. Equal Opportunity Commission.

Solutions for Gender Discrimination
Although there is no one-size-fits-all remedy for gender discrimination, there are a few solutions that you can implement to help improve the situation. You should try to increase the diversity of your workforce by reducing or eliminating experience requirements for some of your positions. This helps fight gender discrimination, because women who wish to re-enter the workforce after taking time off to raise a family might not qualify for jobs that require prior experience. Another solution is to hold seminars and sessions for your male employees, so that they understand the signs and consequences of gender discrimination.

This can help the men at your company become allies of female employees, thereby creating a more collaborative, positive work environment