The International Computer Network Service is known as ‘Internet’. Actually, the worldwide network system which combines various networks is referred to as the Internet. Users can be Internet subscribers in two ways. The first one is the online internet. The method of linking directly to the internet with any other service provider through telephone lines is called the online internet. Users can be associated with any other provider at any time. Apart from this, by the IP ACCESS system, one can directly connect to the internet online. But this method is very expensive so that the general customer is not interested in it.

The second way is the off-line internet, known as the email. In this process, customers accept the nearest server as a medium, as it is called off-line internet or email. Through this process, customers can communicate and share information at low. The main cause of internet innovation was the military need. First, in 1969, the US military organization began using the Internet to maintain complete confidential communications with their locations
worldwide. Then it was known as MILNET which is a part of the primary precursor network, the ARPANET, initially served as a backbone for interconnection of regional academic and military networks in the 1980s. MILNET was the name given to a network that split off from ARPANET in 1983 to create an internetwork designated for use by the
U.S. Department of Defense.

In 1985, the National Science Foundation of the United States introduced other types of a communication system for the public named as ‘NSFNET’. It was then only a medium of information exchange for scientific research. Within three years ‘ NSFNET’ spread across the globe. In 1993, the internet was opened for commercial use. Currently, there are now more than 4 billion people around the world using the internet. Through the internet, we can get ourselves
benefited in many ways. There are many profits available through the internet. We can get the worldwide news by using the newsgroup on the internet. In case of article writing or research, the availability of appropriate books is most required. Only through the internet, we can contact with any library throughout the world for our desired rare
information for any kind of research and inquisition. Apart from this, suggestions for business dealings or complicated suits, and advice for foreign lawyers can be solved at home without visiting abroad. From thousands of files, you can find out the preferred one in no time by the blessing of the internet. With the assist of the internet, one can have better treatment, learn about lifestyle (cooking and fashion) and even marriage can be done. Bangladesh also becomes wide awake by the touch of the internet. By fulfilling the project ‘Digital Bangladesh’ of the present government of Bangladesh, it is expected that revolution of information technology will be achieved. After all the good deeds, the internet also has some toxic effects. Through the internet, unscrupulous users or consumers do falsework, providing false information, transmigration of pornography or gambling. Some people are making viruses in the computer and spread it over the Internet. As a result, millions of computers in the world are being damaged and the valuable stored data is diminished in no time. But it is our choice how to use the internet as a blessing or a curse. If we put these negative aspects aside, the internet keeps people closure beyond time and place by bridging all over the world. The Internet has unveiled new doors for information and technology, making the world a better place for us.

