Internet has changed our lives in unimaginable ways. We can perform many activities over the internet with ease. It is indeed a miraculous and promising development in the history of the world. Due to high flexibility and convenience of the internet, the number of users is increasing each day. While internet provides us with a platform to perform various activities such as communicating with people far off, banking, exchanging information, etc, it also has various downsides which certainly cannot be ignored.

Advantages of Internet

The facility of internet is advantageous to each and every person regardless of age and occupation. It allows businesses to establish a global reach towards customers by marketing their products and services online. Internet has made communication easier and comfortable. Now, we can connect with a person living anywhere on the planet using internet.

Internet is a great source for acquiring knowledge as it contains almost all the information. Hence, with an internet connection, we can access that information in a matter of seconds. Internet can also be used for entertainment purpose i.e., for watching movies, reading books on various topics and a lot more.

Disadvantages of Internet

Though, the internet is regarded as one of the greatest inventions. It has several disadvantages which certainly cannot be ignored. The trend of internet has now transformed to an addiction. We are always hooked onto the internet and gadgets these days. This addiction is harmful for both physical and mental health. Most of the times, internet acts as a distraction and reduces productivity at work place. Though it is a medium for learning and accessing information, excessive and untimely use of internet can be extremely harmful.

Every technology or activity has its own pros and cons. The trick is to act smart and make effective use of all that is available while ducking from its downsides. A little alertness from the user’s side can improve the productivity and quality of living. We have to teach certain set cyber rules to small kids and teenagers especially so that they can stay away from exploitation and other crimes while on the internet. The advantages of the internet should be harnessed efficiently while taking care of its disadvantages.