Food is called human fuel. This is one of the fundamental needs of human life. To grow up and survive on the earth, every human being needs food. But, unfortunately, some dishonest businessmen are responsible to make this life leading food into the adulterated product. Food adulteration has become nowadays a national issue. When a substance is added to any food item to increase its quantity, not quality is called food adulteration. Any kind of food item including fruits, vegetables, oil, fishes, milk products, fast foods, and baby foods are being contaminated with poisonous chemicals. The main reasons behind this food adulteration are high profit and to remain a fresh good look for a longer period. Some greedy, immoral and dishonest businessmen are in the behind-scene of this social crime. Contaminated foods contain destructive substances such as Aldrin, DDT, formalin, Chlordane, etc. Several kinds of research there are hardly any food products from vegetables to milk, meat to fish, juice or biscuit that are not adulterated. Even the hotels and restaurants serve food menus that are harmful to human health. As adulterants decrease the quality of food, consuming this type of food weakens one’s health. As a result, the cost of healthcare increases. From curable to incurable, various serious disorders and diseases such as liver damage, kidney failure, cancer, heart diseases, headache, high blood pressure, dysentery, diarrhea, etc are caused by taking adulterated foods regularly. This issue has become now a great concern for both the public and the government. It is the right time to take action to eradicate this serious crime. To find out and punish the dishonest businessmen, mobile courts have set by the government. But this is not enough. To monitor the food producing and manufacturing, retail and wholesale sale sections a special monitoring cell should be formed. The government, common people, mass media and law enforcement agencies have to work together with a concerted effort to remove this issue. Food adulteration is a curse to our society. This increases the load of health. Its consequences are so pathetic that many common people are the poor victim of this crime. To save the people and to give a safe place to live to the next generation, food adulteration must be removed from society.