Food adulteration is basically changing the true quality of pure foods by adding chemical additives. It spans from adding mild chemical preservatives to extremely harmful substances. Be it poultry, fruits, spices, and even daily bakery items; everything is getting adulterated nowadays. The reason for adding preservatives to the food is obvious: to get more profit out of the scope. And that is why it is getting out of control only because of the endless green of dishonest and immoral businessman.


 
Chemical additives are added to increase their shelf life. The longer a product stays in good quality, the more it is easier to sell off to innocent customers. For example, mango is a perishable food. In each year, thousands of tons of mango get produced in the summer, and to make sure that all mangoes are sold before it gets perished, businessmen add substances like formalin to prevent the perishing.

Not only this, but fruits also get injected with substances like Carbide, one of the most harmful chemicals for the human body, to look ripe and attractive to customers. Sugary water or color water gets injected in fruits to make it taste better. Harmful chemical colors get added in regular foods like spices, milk gets water added to increase the quantity.

Poultry farms feed harmful things to animals in order to increase their size and to sell in bigger quantity thereafter. Not only that, but pricey products also get mixed with disguising elements to increase the quantity and to get more profit out. This heinous activity is getting out of control is that there are not enough strict government restrictions and implementations.


 
Also, identifying foods with additives is not very easy throughout the country. As harmful substances like DDT, Aldrin, Formalin, Chlordane, etc are available, even micro-level sellers are being able to poison foods. Mobile courts roam in the streets to identify and punish the sellers, but unless the span of searching increases, it is impossible to uproot the criminals from their cores.

Then again, many sellers offer foods with no harmful additives, and as such, they do require increasing the price a bit. But people from a middle-income country like Bangladesh will never be willing to pay an additional amount of money to avoid things as such. Consuming harmful chemicals on a low scale may not have any impact soon, but they will be the reason for serious physical damage and diseases like cancer, lung diseases, kidney failures, etc sooner or later.


 
Many of our people are under the poverty line, and most are unaware of the dangerous and long-lasting effects this has. So making them aware of such events will not make them willing enough to buy pure goods at a high price. This is exactly the point the selfish businessmen are getting their additional profit from.



