Food adulteration means anything adding or subtracting with food making it injurious to health. This adulteration may be done intentionally or unintentionally. Intentional adulteration is a criminal act and punishable offense. However, food adulteration has become a very common practice in our country and  we  are  consuming  these  foods  almost  everyday,  which  have numerous harmful effects to  our health.  Everyday  we  watch  on  the TV news  how  the  unhygienic  and  spurious (???????) foods  are  entering  into  our houses. Adulteration of foods has many effects on individuals as well as on the community health. Food can be adulterated in a couple of ways. Mixing of clay, stones, pebbles, sand, marble chips, etc. people can make the food adulterate. Cheaper and inferior substances being replaced wholly or partially with good ones, foods are adulterated. Again, trying to hide or canceling the food standard, mixing decomposed ones in fruits and vegetables, changing of manufacture and expiry dates, adding non-edible substances like low quality preservatives, coloring agents, etc. dishonest traders make the food adulterate. Foods are adulterated for many reasons such as, making more profit, to increase the quantity, high population demand, illiteracy of general public, lack of effective food laws and lack of government initiatives, etc. On the contrary, we can easily detect the common adulterants in the food if we want. The presence of water in milk can be detected by putting a drop of milk on a polished slanting surface. The drop of pure milk flows lowly leaving a white trail behind it, whereas milk adulterated water will flow immediately without leaving a mark. There are various methods to detect adulterants in other foods like milk and milk products such as- oil and fats, sweetening agents, food grains and their products, spices, miscellaneous products, etc. Food adulteration can have various types of severe harmful effects on health. It can lead the body to paralysis or eventually death. Some of the adulterants are highly toxic for the body leading to heart failure, liver disorders, kidney disorders & many more. So, taking it as a national issue and considering the life of our future generation, we all should come forward to prevent food adulteration as it is not possible to control only by the government.
