Food is adulterated when it is mixed with harmful chemicals and particles of other things than food. Sometimes super quality foods are mixed with inferior quality of foods and it becomes adulterated. Sometimes rice, our main food, is adulterated with crushed particles of stones or pebbles which look exactly like fine rice. But these particles of pebbles are never digested and they may be stored in stomachs or kidneys of the human body. They may cause severe pain in our stomachs and kidneys even they lead to cancer. But we forget that food is essential for every living being. It provides us with energy and strength. We cannot survive on the Earth without pure food. We will suffer from various diseases if we take adulterated food.


 
There are many causes for adulteration in Bangladesh. Our industrialists and businessmen are mostly dishonest and they want to be very rich overnight. So, they adulterate food. Sometimes, our industrialists adulterate food with a view to making the food attractive by mixing harmful chemicals with it.

The persons entrusted with the responsibilities of ensuring pure food by tasting the quality of food are very much corrupt. As a result, the manufacturing companies of food get chance to mix unwanted substances with food and make them impure. Our government does not attach much importance to public health. Moreover, the businessmen of our country lack in patriotic and humanitarian feelings.


 
The adulteration of food creates an adverse effect on public health because the impact of food adulteration is very dangerous and dreadful. It creates health-hazards to the public and poses a direct threat to the people. When the people take adulterated food, they become helpless victims of various diseases like diarrhoea, dysentery, typhoid, ulcer, blood pressure and even cancer. The manufacturing companies of drinks mix up such harmful substances or chemical that are poisonous in nature and cause serious harm to our health. Sometimes, we see that many people die all of a sudden because of food poisoning. But it is obvious that this sort of food poisoning is caused for food adulteration. In our hotels and restaurants, food adulteration is very common. Rotten foods are mixed with fresh foods which frequently cause hazards for public health.


 
Under these circumstances, our government should resist the attempts of adulterine food at any cost. They should come forward and take positive steps with utmost rigidity and strictness to make it sure that adulterated food should not be sold in the market.