Adulteration is done by antisocial persons who want to make easy money. They mix low quality, cheap, non-edible substances with food and make it adulterated. The cheap, low quality and generally non-edible substances which are purposely mixed with food items to earn profit, are called ADULTERANTS.

Food adulteration is a serious crime which is punishable under the law. Consumption of adulterated food can cause serious disorders such as diarrhoea, asthma, ulcers, food poisoning, cancer and may even result in death. Consumption of Holdi adulterated with lead chromate, may lead to serious mental disorders, especially in children. It can also cause anaemia and paralysis. Dhania powder is adulterated by adding powdered cow- dung or horse dung to it. Milk is adulterated with water and chemical mixture of urea etc., rice with stones and cooking oil with inferior quality oils. Most of the adulterants are very harmful and toxic.

More than 54 people died in Delhi due to mustard oil and several hundreds were hospitalised. Several days after this tragedy Delhi Government and other states banned the sale of mustard oil. This adulteration caused swelling of legs, loss of eye-sight, damage to liver, heart and kidneys resulting in different types of death. Greed and profit motive encourages the businessman for adulteration because the culprits responsible for adulteration are not punished seriously to that level which make them human killer.

The investigation by the crime branch indicates that if P.F.A. (Prevention of Food Adulteration) department have been more alert and dutiful, this tragedy could have been averted. The P.F.A. had received complaints but it simply sat over the complaints. It did not take any action. In order to prevent the adulteration of food-the Government has laid down certain rules as the prevention of Food Adulteration Acts and Rules and Food Products Orders, to keep a check on the quality of various food products manufactured.

The Bureau of Indian standards inspects the various food products manufactured. If the products have the standard quality needed, the certificate in issued. The various certificates of reliability are the F.P.O (Food Products Order) mark, the I.S.I. (Indian Standard Institution) mark and the AGMARK (Agriculture Marketing).

In order to test the purity of the various food items, most of the big cities have food testing laboratories. To keep a check, the officials of the health department take samples of common food products from different shops and send them to the food laboratories for analysis. In case an adulterated food in detected, the manufacturer and the shop-keeper who is selling such a product, is prosecuted and punished. according to the law.

There is hardly any item in the Indian market, which is not adulterated. Research has shown that even fruits, vegetables and cereals, sold in the market, are said to contain high levels of toxic metals like lead, nickel, cadmium, and chromium. Adulteration spares nothing when a spirit of becoming quickly rich, over-rules the moral ground. Even the simple water is not spared. Under the well known brand name-mineral water is reused filling with tube well water and is sold to weary thirsty train passengers.

 

Adulteration is a fatal crime against society. We have a law against adulteration but like other social laws, it is rarely enforced. The responsible officers and politicians do not take any action against social fatal evil until it takes the form of a big tragedy and becomes the heading of newspapers. Same is the case with Adulteration. In short, government wakes up only when Adulteration results in fatal tragedy. "We have no business to make laws when we have no intention to enforce them=- the prevention of Food Adulteration Act and others."


