Moon is an integral part of our universe. It is one of the beautiful heavenly bodies. It adds beauty and splendor to the darkness of night. The light of moon has a soothing effect.


Walking in a moonlit night has its charm and beauty. It is a refreshing experience. It relieves you of all your tension and gives pleasure. Strolling in a moonlit night particularly during the summer add to the delight and pleasure. It elates the mood.

Walking in a moonlit night not only delights our heart and relaxes our mood but also removes the boredom and weariness caused by the hectic schedule of the whole day. The atmosphere during the moonlit night is surcharged with calmness and quietness, particularly in the countryside which is away from the clamour and noise of city. The plants and trees and whole atmosphere bathed in the cool light of the moon present an enchanting sight. Walking in such an atmosphere really fills with joy. It elevates our spirit. It invigorates us for better thinking and ideas. We are filled with renewed energy and strength to carry on our next day task. It is indeed a thrilling and relieving experience.

ADVERTISEMENTS:


 
The entire nature robbed in a silvery shining light is so enchanting that we don’t like to go inside the house. It is so enjoying that we like to continue it for more and more time. Everything appears to be cheerful and mouthful. The sweet fragrance emitting flower, the dancing of petals in moonlit night is the soothing and cool wind and the trees whispering really render an absorbing sight. The sight in the remote countryside is all the more enjoying where there is expanse of green fields, flowers and fruits laden trees clothed in shining of moonlight serve as stress-buster.

Poets have composed verses on the beauty of the moonlit night. It has a pet scene for the lover of arts including literature, artist, painter, etc. Whether walking, singing, playing, dancing or doing anything in a moonlit night has its own distinct experience. Indeed a moonlit night is a feast to our eyes.

