 Language is a method of contact by which we can exchange our thoughts with each other. Among thousands of languages, English has occupied the place of international language. We are living in a world where we can’t think of our day without English. English has numerous importance in everyday life.


 


Firstly, English is an international language. That means it is used as a common language among people all over the world. If we go aboard for educational purposes, you must know English cause English is the medium of higher studies. Books of higher studies are written in English. Moreover, a student can find a rich collection of lectures related to his study on the internet in English. After completing the study, anyone can find a job in a multinational company if he/she has good command over English. English helps to meet new people as it is lingua franca (common language). If a person of the non-English speaking country travel to another country, he/she may face a troublesome situation to communicate with others if he/she doesn’t know English.


 
If anyone wants to do any research, he/she needs to read the research paper published previously related to his/her topic. But most research papers are written in English. So English is essential to do any research.


 
Most of the prominent media telecast their show based on English. Besides this, if anyone wants to enjoy world-class movies or drama without subtitles in his native language, he/she must be an expert in English. It will also help a person to cope with different cultures and literature.


 
In this internet-based modern world, we must go to the internet for information. But half of the content of the internet is written in English. Businessmen must know English for international trade and commerce.
People should learn English for making a place in this modern world. But it is unfortunate that students of our country fear English. They think that English may be very hard to learn. It is because our education system fails to demonstrate English properly to our students. So, the education ministry should take proper steps in this regard. Then our students can make them compatible with the world.