Deforestation is just opposite to the concept of afforestation. It refers to the act of cutting and burning down of forests indiscriminately. In a word, it is the destruction of trees and plants of our environment. It has many adverse effects on our environment and our life. It destroys the ecological balance of our environment.

Due to deforestation, many species of birds and animals have already been extinct and many others are on the verge of extinction. Because of deforestation, it does not rain adequately and this causes long-term drought, which may turn the whole country into a desert. Apart from these, deforestation also hampers our agricultural production. In fact, our environment is going to be uninhabitable due to deforestation.

However, there is one way to save ourselves and our environment from it and that is. we should start a mass campaign for tree plantation. For this, we should raise awareness among the people about the adverse effects of deforestation as well as about the importance of tree plantation. In this regard, my suggestion is that we should plant at least one tree every month and if we cut down one tree, we should plant three. I can do it effectively by planting trees so that others are encouraged to do the same. I think all men or women, old or young should come forward and plant at least one tree to save our existence.

PARAGRAPH ON DEFORESTATION 3 :
Deforestation is the indiscriminate cutting of trees, This is a problem haunting the whole world. According to the ecologists, for liveable environment there should be forest on the 25% land of the total land area. In Bangladesh there is 16% forest of the total land. In India there is 13% forest of the total land. To meet up the basic needs o food and housing man is destroying forest without caring for the ecological imbalance. Green patches of land are no greener. New areas of the world are getting deserts as an immediate effect of deforestation. Trees play a pivotal role in maintaining ecological balance. Trees produce oxygen and receive carbon dioxide. In absence of trees carbon dioxide is increasing worldwide. As a result there is global warming. The sea level is rising. Any time in future the earth may be engulfed by seas. So deforestation should be stopped now.