Man lives in nature. They depend on the possibility of the assistance of nature. Availability of different natural resources like soil, water, coal, oil, gas etc. are influenced by trees and plants. Trees are closely related to human life. So, trees play an important role in both our life and economy.

Bangladesh is a deltaic region country. Sea-beaches and low-lying unused lands can be used for tree plantation. We can plant trees on the banks of ponds, on the banks of dams and on both sides of highways etc. Again in the villages, there are many places which can be used for tree plantation.


June – July is the proper time for tree plantation. Tree plantation programmes should be expanded to the remote corners of the country. People must be convinced of the need for planting trees. Every year “Tree Plantation Week” is held.
The contribution of trees to the life of men is spectacular. Trees will solve food problems to some extent. These are a great source of food and vitamins. They meet up our vitamin deficiency. We get rich fruits and life-saving medicines from trees and plants. We also get timber from trees. We use the timber to make furniture, doors, windows, boats, and ships for our domestic use.


Green plants play the most important role in keeping the atmospheric balance by consuming carbon dioxide and releasing oxygen. So, removal of plants and trees would disturb the composition of natural air. Natural calamities such as floods, cyclones, droughts are frequent affairs in Bangladesh.

Trees give shade and shelter to people. Trees make the land fertile and save us from erosion. Trees cause rainfall and beautify nature. They keep the environment cool and protected. Trees are also used as fuel. Indeed, trees are constant companions of our daily life.
Finally, we can say that trees are our national assets. We should luke massive programmes for plantation of trees all over the country. it may be noted that public awareness should be made to avoid cutting of trees. Hence, we should strive to make forests nearly all over Bangladesh.