Introduction: Since the dawn of civilization, man has a close relation with nature. Man has made friendship with nature. Nature helps us in many ways. Similarly, trees are closely related to our life. They are our friends. Trees play an important role in our life and economy.



Scope of Plantation: Bangladesh is a lower riparian country. Upper levels are the best suitable places to plant trees. Sea beaches and low-lying unused lands can be used for tree plantation. There are many roads and highways in our country. We can plant trees on both sides of these roads and highways. Again in the villages, there are many proper places that can use for tree plantation. The hands and areas that are lying unused can be used too.



Proper Time of Tree Plantation: June and July are the best time for tree plantation. Trees plantation program should be expanded to the remote corner of the country. The officers connected with this program should take proper steps and needful measures to make it a success. They should try to make it famous all over the country. They should come forward with their best education. Most of the people in our village are illiterate. They do not know the importance of trees. The attempt should be made to make them aware of the importance of trees.


Trees Provide us with Food and Vitamins: Trees are our best friends. They are a great source of Food and vitamins. There are various kinds of fruit trees. They give us different types of fruits which are rich in food value and vitamins. Trees meet up our local demands. They also meet up our vitamin deficiency. As a result, people can keep their body fit and sound by taking fruits. Again we export fruits to many other countries and earn a lot of foreign exchange.


Trees Provide us With Furniture: Trees are our constant companies in our day to day life. We use them for various purposes. People cannot think of our homes, houses, residence, etc. without trees. We use trees to make furniture, windows, doors for our domestic use. Again expensive furniture is made from these trees. We sell some pieces of expensive furniture to foreign countries. Thus trees add beauty to our dwelling places.

Its Impact on Climate: Trees bear a great impact on the climate. If we destroy trees at random, one day the country will turn into a great dessert. The country will bear the consequences of the greenhouse influence. Again there will be no rain, and as a result, the country will face a great crisis because ours is an agricultural country and our economy is dependent on cultivation. Again our agriculture is dependent on rain. So trees play a vital role in our climate. Trees keep the soil stable. Trees save us from floods and many other natural calamities.

Conclusion: It is needless to speak the importance of trees. It is not possible to describe the importance and uses of trees in words. They are part and parcel in our day to day life. We can’t think of our existence without them. Rabindranath says, Back the forest, take our town. “Our government has also launched a massive and ambitious program concerning tree plantation. We should not use and destroy trees at random. Instead, we should plant trees more and for a better, happier, and healthier life.